# Railway_Project.github.io

Now a days, we saw number of accidents occurred in railways. The accidents were mainly occurred due to obstacles in the way .  When  the  train  met  with  an accident  maximum  people  lose  their  lives.  Most  of  the  accidents  were  occurred  with  negligence  of  humans  and without  proper  communication  from  Train  Traffic  Control  Station  (TTCS).To  prevent  this  problem  we  identified  a sensors  which  will  identify  the  obstacle in the way.  The  purpose  of  the  project  is  to  develop  and  design  a  low-cost  system  with  high  integrity  and  reliability  for enhancing to prevent the train’s collision in adverse weather situations, such as a foggy or rainy and identify the obstacles in the way.  In  this  we  used    IR  sensors, arduino boardmicrocontroller, buzzer,power circuit. In this paper we alert the driver to avoid the obstacles with the help of buzzer.

We have made a system in this project. This system involves the design of obstacle detection system for finding obstacles in the way. This  system  uses  controller  for  interfacing  the  robotic  vehicle  and obstacle  detection  sensor.  The sensing device senses the voltage variations from the IR sensor and then it gives the signal to the microcontroller.  The IR sensor checks if there is any obstacle and microcontroller will start the buzzer and  the buzzer starts running, brakes get applied.

This project is just for prototype purpose. But if it will be made in real life then there gonna be some changes, for example- UV sensor instead of IR, the application of brakes will take place at a larger distance from the obstacle so that the train will stop at a safer distance from the obstacle.
